Improve OSC Support in Avatar Optimizer (#1306)
anatawa12/AvatarOptimizer: .docs/content/docs/developers/asset-description/index.en.md

## Why Asset Description is needed

> Asset Description is a file that provides information about your assets to Avatar Optimizer.\

Reviewer: これ真上の行と被ってるね

Author: 被っててまぁいいかってやった。でも消す？

Reviewer: 真上過ぎて繰り返してもしょうがない気がして?

Author: そうね。消して下の行thoseを書き換えるか

> Asset Description is a file that provides information about your assets to Avatar Optimizer.\
> Avatar Optimizer uses those information to not excessively optimize user's avatar.

Author: ```suggestion
Avatar Optimizer uses information from Asset Description to not excessively optimize user's avatar.
```

こうかな

Current Asset Description can provide the following information:

- Meaningless Components: Components that should be ignored by Avatar Optimizer.
- Parameters Read By External Tools: Parameters that can be read by external tools, especially for OSC Tools.

> - Parameters Changed By External Tools: Parameters that can be changed by external tools, especially for OSC Tools.

Reviewer: これ改行とかじゃなくてコロンの方が良い感じ? (他のところで別の書き方してなかったっけ)

Author: あったっけ。あるのを覚えてないのでこの書き方になってる

Reviewer: https://github.com/anatawa12/AvatarOptimizer/blob/master/.docs/content/docs/reference/trace-and-optimize/index.md?plain=1
とか

Author: 揃えようか

> - Meaningless Components: Components that should be ignored by Avatar Optimizer.
> - Parameters Read By External Tools: Parameters that can be read by external tools, especially for OSC Tools.
> - Parameters Changed By External Tools: Parameters that can be changed by external tools, especially for OSC Tools.

Author: ```suggestion
- `Meaningless Components`\
  Components that should be ignored by Avatar Optimizer.
- `Parameters Read By External Tools`\
  Parameters that can be read by external tools, especially for OSC Tools.
- `Parameters Changed By External Tools`
  Parameters that can be changed by external tools, especially for OSC Tools.
```

こうかな

> We will discuss why Asset Description is needed for each information below.

Reviewer: discussなの?

Author: 論ずるという意味のdiscussの用法

Author: discussってほどしっかり論じてないからdescribeとかのほうがいいか

Author: ```suggestion
We will describe why Asset Description is needed for each information below.
```

[make-component-compatible]: ../make-your-components-compatible-with-aao

### Parameters Read By Extenral Tools {#why-parameters-read-by-external-tools}

Avatar Optimizer will remove components that are not used in the Avatar.

> Some components like VRCPhysBone and VRCContactReceiver will create Animator Parameters that can be read by OSC Tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And, some components like VRCPhysBone and VRCContactReceiver will create Animator Parameters that can be read by OSC Tools.
```
andで繋げられたりするかな…
2文が浮いててちょっと気になる

Author: Andじゃないと思うなぁ

日本語では私は接続詞なくても違和感ない範囲だと思う。入れるとしたら特にとかかな

Reviewer: 1文目がどうしても浮いて見える
私の感覚の問題か…

Author: うーん

少し考えてみて「また」とかに相当するfurthermoreとかならいいのかな。前提の列挙だし

Reviewer: そういえばMeaningless Componentsのとこでもコンポーネント消す話してるね
被るのは別の話だからしょうがないとして、書き方は揃えてもいいのかも?

Author: 前提が多いので同じ書き方は難しいと思う

Reviewer: 今日本語のほうで書き方検討してる
ちょっとまってて

Author: ```suggestion
Furthermore, some components like VRCPhysBone and VRCContactReceiver will create Animator Parameters that can be read by OSC Tools.
```

こう？

Reviewer: 日本語草案
```md
PhysBoneやContact Receiverのようなコンポーネントは、OSCツールで読み取り可能なパラメーターを生成します。
そのようなパラメーターは、Animator ControllerやExpression Parameterに登録しなくても、OSCツールから読み取り可能であることが知られています。\
しかし、Avatar Optimizerはそれらのパラメーターが単に使用されていないものなのか、OSCツールで読み取るためのものなのかを判別することができません。
そのため、そのようなパラメーターを生成するコンポーネントは、アバター上のどこからも使われていないものであるとして削除されてしまいます。

これを防ぐために、OSCツールから読み取られる目的のパラメーターをAsset Descriptionで指定することができます。
```

Author: 段落わけないほうが適切だと思うけど文はそうかな。

Reviewer: 空行なしの意?

Author: Yes

Reviewer: 分けた方が見やすい気が個人的にはするけど、やめとく?
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/10cb0ce9-42b2-4b53-847c-18972066f845)

Reviewer: というか英語の方分かれてなかったっけ

Author: 眠くて頭回りきってないかも

まとまった区切りじゃないな。分けて良い

Author: これのあんのsayamameさんの見解がほしい

Reviewer: 英語のやつ?
日本語に寄せた文入れ替え含む書き換えした方が良いかもと思ってるけど、Furthermore案も良いとは思うかな

Author: じゃぁ書き換えるか

However, Avatar Optimizer cannot know if the parameters are used by OSC Tools or not.

> Therefore, Avatar Optimizer will remove those parameters or components that create those parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, Avatar Optimizer will remove those parameters or components that create those parameters, unintentionally for the users.
```

To prevent Avatar Optimizer from removing those parameters, you can specify the parameters that are read by OSC Tools in Asset Description.

### Parameters Changed By External Tools {#why-parameters-written-by-external-tools}

> Currently this information is not actually used by Avatar Optimizer, but it is planned to be used in the future.

Reviewer: infoにする?

Author: しなくていいと思う。必要な理由は？というところに現状はないけど将来はという説明が普通かと

[make-component-compatible]: ../make-your-components-compatible-with-aao

### Parameters Read By Extenral Tools {#why-parameters-read-by-external-tools}

> Avatar Optimizer will remove components that are not used in the Avatar.
> Furthermore, some components like VRCPhysBone and VRCContactReceiver will create Animator Parameters that can be read by OSC Tools.
> However, Avatar Optimizer cannot know if the parameters are used by OSC Tools or not.
> Therefore, Avatar Optimizer will remove those parameters or components that create those parameters, unintentionally for the users.
> 
> To prevent Avatar Optimizer from removing those parameters, you can specify the parameters that are read by OSC Tools in Asset Description.

Author: ```suggestion
Components such as PhysBone and Contact Receiver will make parameters that can be read by OSC tools.
Such parameters are readable by the OSC tool without parameters defined on Animator Controller or Expression Parameter. \
Therefore, Avatar Optimizer is unable to determine whether those parameters are simply unused or intended to be read by the OSC tool.
Since OSC Tools are relatively minor, components that generate such parameters are removed if parameters are unused from anywhere on the avatar.

To prevent Avatar Optimizer from removing those parameters and components, you can specify the parameters that are read by OSC Tools in Asset Description.
```

@Sayamame-beans 再チェックお願いします。何度もすみません

Reviewer: without being definedとかじゃ微妙?

1文目がmakeで4文目がgenerateなのは揃えなくても良いのかな

Author: 変えた。揃えた。

Reviewer: OSC Toolは単数で良い?

`In most cases, components are left because of forgetting to remove, and used by OSC Tools is relatively minor, so components that make such parameters are removed if parameters are unused from anywhere on the avatar.`
とか?
(due toの方が好き?)

Author: toolsにした。

> (due toの方が好き?)

はどゆこと？

Reviewer: 消し忘れ

Author: そのほうが明確化。そうする
